or vegan gains is actually making a much
more intelligent argument that has
nothing to do with this vegan gains is
arguing that people today many people
today try to win an argument by
presenting themselves as a victim but
presenting themselves as a week with the
implicit assumption being if you are a
victim you can't be wrong if you're weak
you must be right or we must treat you
sympathetically such an interesting
perspective but the original meaning and
purpose of the slave morality argument
was racist was anti-semitic was fascist
was fascistic in part it's based on
taking what's open our eyes to say which
is an epic of philosophy of compassion
and turning on its head and saying no
it's actually the cruelty of the
Conqueror the cruelty of the aristocrat
that is truly good not the calling for
sympathy of you know the conquered it's
partly just like HL Mencken like any
radio shock jock just a an attempt to
get your audience to pay attention to
you you know just by saying the most
outrageous thing possible and it's
partly a way of and this goes way back a
guy's like Bruno Bruno Bauer did that's
in Germany you could always get
attention to Germany by basically
criticizing Christianity via
anti-semitism by saying okay here's
what's wrong with Judaism and then it's
even worse than Christianity or it's the
fall within Christianity because of
course it was culturally safe to
criticize Judaism eighty semitism was
very popular ideology at the time and
then to make it edgy and shocking by say
oh no no and this this problem with you
more so that's that's kind of the stuff
that's going on here hey guys this video
is going to talk a little bit about the
philosophy of Friedrich Nietzsche really
about the perception of the philosophy
freedom you to not about the philosophy
itself how we think about philosophy in
the modern Western world today and I
want to make a cab you hear that i am
not an expert on nietzsche not by any
search the imagination Nietzsche is
really one of those author
where every time I read his work whether
i read a few pages or a few paragraphs I
was underwhelmed to say the least I've
never understood the extent to which
he's put on a pedestal in the Western
imagination and so I did not study
Nietzsche too grace Tempest well I
avoided study Nietzsche but coeval with
this is that I was really very very
familiar with two or three of the most
important sources of inspiration for
Nietzsche I did study extensively in
in-depth philosophy Arthur Schopenhauer
if you google my name and Chopin I
organized should get some results right
away from that I did study in depth the
philosophy of Max Turner now maybe this
is itself an explanation already if you
are familiar with guys like Schopenhauer
and Max Turner very much direct
inspirations to Nietzsche direct
antecedents to Nietzsche then right away
you're probably going to find Nietzsche
a lot less impressive and I was also
actually familiar with the work of
august strindberg august strindberg is
is not considered a philosopher he's
just an author but again a lot of the a
lot of the swag anisha's work comes out
of Stromberg now I want to give one more
shirt okay let's stick on disclaimer
number one year disclaimer number one is
look when you make videos on YouTube you
may be tempted to only talk about topics
that you're an expert in that obviously
you know you have background in you have
expertise in where you realize something
important to say and you feel one
hundred percent confident you've done
the research what have you and you know
one of the questions I get asked when I
meet people face-to-face in real life
who know me from YouTube they often kind
of asked questions like a.m. you know do
you always dominate the conversation in
real life the same way you just give
these monologues on the internet now the
answer is no but it depends on the top
of conversation right when if we're okay
when I was in Thailand I met people who
knew me from YouTube from the internet
and they often wanted to talk about the
history and politics of Thailand so I
know a lot about Santa
compared to them compared to the other
people in conversation so yeah I would
dominate that conversation because we're
working within my comfort zone within my
area of past expertise past research now
flip it around if we're going to talk
about the history and politics of
Jamaica I'm going to do a lot of
listening and I baby asking questions
with a really open mind I'm interested
I'm quite happy to sit down with you and
talk about history and politics of
Jamaica but I have no expertise I have
no background I'm not gonna be
dominating their conversation so here on
YouTube you may get into the habit of
only talking about those subjects that
you are an expert on and on the other
hand you may feel tempted to push your
limits and come out come out of your own
field come out of your own this one
coming here in comfort zone challenge
yourself to speak on topics where maybe
you don't know enough so both of those
things pull you and I'm so critical I'm
so critical of a book when am I too much
into my comfort zone moment coming out
what draws me out of my comfort zone to
talk about Nietzsche somebody I really
don't want to talk about well you know
it's it's your boy vegan gains richard
AKA vegan gains has really been making
hay with this philosophical concept of
slave morality and you know I've written
to Richard I can't say we talked about
it I was a one-sided conversation I said
in some facebook messages because I do
think it's really interesting we're
thinking about and I was not flattering
him or bullshitting him I said to
Richard said look what you say about
slave morality it's actually much more
intelligent than what Nietzsche says in
the original the original in this case
really is the genealogy of morals it's
in a few other of Nietzsche's works and
I did point out to him you know the
actual the original philosophy of slave
morality is racist is proto fascist is
anti-semitic it's tied into that whole
side of Nietzsche's thought now again
it's no surprise if you're familiar with
nature if you're familiar with so I
don't know 19th century philosophy in
general em
now again my point is not to shame
Richard obviously Richard is not racist
and it's not anti-semitic and it's not
any of those things I think it's I mean
one of my catchphrases they use all the
time face-to-face with people they say
look you've gotta switch from looking at
these authors in terms of authority to
just looking at them in terms of
authorship in terms of the struggle of
an author to find an audience we lead a
lot of these guys like Nietzsche in
their own time and own lives what they
were doing was a lot more like show
business and less like science we can't
think about the history of philosophy in
terms of scientific discovery the
reality is that a guy like Nietzsche
genealogy of morals is 1887 as real late
in the day honestly the intellectual
background for Nietzsche writing the way
he did the single most important figure
to know is actually going in for buck
for VAR 1841 publishes a book whole
reason this Christmas domes and so
ravenous Christmas in terms of this as
the the essence of Christianity or
something this was really the first
break out German 19th century German
book of philosophy that was talked about
in all the newspapers that not just
academics or scholars read but ordinary
housewives were buzzing about there were
you know circles book clubs and reader
circles of housewives ordinary people
who sat down and work this way through
the book and in many many ways
especially if you can read some German
if you look at the style of for vox
worth is one big hit book he tried to
have other hit books in his later career
in every Bruce and success this is I
mean this is also a period in which the
the technology of the newspaper was
changing and which the concept of
getting famous by writing opinion pieces
you know this was really crazy say the
nature of government censorship the
extent to which religion controlled
public
discourse spoken published books and in
newspapers all of that was changing in
subtle the profound ways and a guy like
4eva he absolutely showed the way for
someone like Nietzsche that you could
get famous and you wouldn't get famous
in philosophy by writing conservative
constructive opinions you wouldn't get
famous and for us by doing careful
detailed research about philology about
the history of religion etc etc the way
you got famous was writing in this very
peculiar edgy style that four of our
showed of it sorry it's not worth
describing here as for about the text
it's it's bubbling with this kind of
aimless passion every chapter when you
reach for Bach you don't know what
direction it's going in and he kind of
seems to be taking the argument
direction the terms renters the exact
opposite you know you'll have a chapter
which is saying like oh but really the
essence of Christianity is love not fate
and he's going to talk about love and
take you one direction then turns around
says but of course the real meaning of
Christianity is the complete antithesis
of love it's you know it this isn't like
one-pieces like this the whole book is
full of these these twists and turns and
like I say it was a hit so it 1841 max
Turner's big hit next turner is the
single most important intellectual
influence on philosophy of friedrich
nietzsche i would say or look for this
way it set the groundwork for niche in
another sense is 1844 and against Turner
it was a hit it was talked about in
newspapers it caused a stir briefly not
for a long time Cole Marks has a book
called on the video chat visions this is
jeff's later some notice on the German
ideology is the English translation so I
did read German back in they read twice
me and Sherman in my misspent youth you
see how far a first it away from that
now anyway
if I could just get one good german
girlfriend that get the relationship to
laugh I could bring up my ability in
speaking and reading German no time flat
anyway my misspent youth so 1844 Max
Turner has this [ __ ] and most people
never heard of sterner but people who
are fans of nisha normal in Selma tell
them look if you were into nature you
should relocate Turner they look at and
go yeah now Miss Turner is way more
coherent than Nietzsche but again there
were elements of it being shocking in a
certain way challenging the fundamental
assumptions of religion in a certain way
and again this is only a couple years
after 40 bucks this is very much the
same period the same tradition and then
finally I don't think I've any much to
say about it you guys already know it's
very well documented in many ways in
nietzsche's early career he was
idolizing Schopenhauer Arthur
Schopenhauer and then he decided to turn
chauvin our upside down and many of the
things he says including this specific
to Auburn geography of the concept of
slave morality is really in principle
he's taking an idea from show up an hour
and then just turned it upside down and
argued the exact opposite so show power
system of ethics is huge on pity on
compassion compassion is the crux of of
ethics you could say more about it could
talk for an hour about it but when you
look at this kind of childish elements
of what Nietzsche is saying and try to
say no compassion is bad and evil and
weak the higher morality as a you know
so-called aristocratic morality charges
for it's pretty transparent that this is
him taking something from show up an
hour and then turning it upside down and
then trying to make it kind of edgy and
shocking now look I'm going to get into
this and just want to read you a primary
source here in many ways you have to
recognize this is show business this is
like a movie director saying oh yeah a
couple years ago there was this hit
movie with this format so I'm going to
make a movie this is not the progress of
science this is not even really the
progress of literature's about the
progress than anything in a lot of ways
Nietzsche if you can
kind of take off take off the
rose-colored glasses of regarding this
as an academically respectable work so
much of what nietzsche did is a lot like
I mean to use a modern example it's like
a shock jock on the radio he's saying
things just to be shocking but he's also
a lot like HL Mencken if you don't have
name HL Mencken it's a really good
comparison one of the main things people
debate about Nietzsche which is a
pointless debate have people say well
was Nietzsche really racist because
sometimes he says racist stuff and
sometimes he says he's not racist so
nice because anti-semitic stuff and
certain see directly says that he's not
an anti-semite yo you know a guy like
each show Megan HL Mencken was a
newspaper columnist basically and you to
get attention this example of a real
racial theory HL Mencken published I'm
sir I forget one this was this is the
1920s or 1930s I'm sorry but this is
within the 20 Century HL Mencken put
forward the theory that blacks people in
the American South the african-americans
of the deep south were racially superior
to the white people in the deep south
because he said the black people were
the product of rape by the true
aristocrats the truly refined people in
the South who had all died in the Civil
War would practice the black people
carried on that that tradition and that
the white people in American South were
like genetic trash where degeneres
compared the black people there is
absolutely no doubt that HL Mencken only
wrote that theory to get attention to
cause controversy this was the this is
the radio shock jock of his day and
there is evidence and show me he had
black friends he did say things that
were racist against black people in that
he said things that were racist against
white people just to get attention but
we know in terms of his private life mr.
Lee he was not very select people nature
is one of these guys if you can stop
regarding this as if philosophy is a
science as if philosophy belongs in a
totally different bookshelf from pop
culture entertainment whatever you
realize Misha was a struggle
author trying to get attention and in
many many cases he's just incoherently
seeing the most shocking outrageous
thing or he's even making a reasonable
point in a shocking outrageous way and
it is racist and it is anti-semitic and
it's true that he also says he doesn't
really mean it only makes it worse ya
know so look at that time I've mentioned
this name or at a couple times August
Strindberg in the 1880s if you own the
name August Strindberg was in many ways
the absolute height of his power hi Evan
implement the height of his fame August
Strindberg was a playwright and a
novelist and a philosopher in his own
way frankly but he's not remembered that
way at this time when Nietzsche wrote
letters to August Strindberg August
rember was one of the most famous and
influential people in all of Europe and
Nietzsche was not Nietzsche was really
struggling author trying to get famous
writing these ridiculous op-ed pieces
you know again look some same philosophy
is not a time it can be we meet you have
the choice he could have sat down and
done real philology or real research of
any kind on ancient Greek on Latin on
any philosophical or social political
topic imagine he chose not to he chose
to do this crazy over-the-top histrionic
dramatic stuff he was trying to get
famous the same way he'd seen other
philosophers in Germany get famous most
notably you know for ba and Max Turner
to in some way Schopenhauer was a
positive example isn't some was negative
example and above all else a guy like
August Strindberg was somebody who was
taking shall we say the theater of ideas
and really becoming famous so Nietzsche
writes a letter to August Strindberg you
want to know what kind of guy in each it
really is here's this [ __ ] letter ok
case you think Nietzsche is
in case you think need you at anything
other than a Fame [ __ ] in 21st century
problem so there's a neat you are
writing to strindberg quote dear sir the
highly valued note of Monsieur tains
which i enclose is my excuse for asking
your advice in a matter of great
importance to me I am keenly anxious to
obtain an audience in France in fact
this is for me an absolute necessity
being as I am the most independent and
perhaps the strongest spirit in our
world today one dealing to the
fulfillment of a stupendous task it is
impossible that I should allow myself to
be constrained from greeting the few
persons willing to listen to me but the
barriers which an abominable dynastic
national policy has erected between the
people and I gladly acknowledge that
above all I see such persons in France I
am well acquainted with all the
transpires needle extra world of France
and I'm told that my manner of writing
is really French even though in my
zarathustra I have attained a perfection
in the German language unequal hitherto
by any other German many people simply
refer to Nietzsche as insane I'm pausing
that the letter continued and many
people for the Istrian burgers insane
what's going on here is same whoring
what's going on here is nisha is writing
to someone much more famous and
influential himself asking him to open
the doors to give him an audio in France
to reach an audience in France and if
you read the later correspondence it
really is the same as as what goes on
today Nietzsche is saying to them the
later letters oh I have connections at
this one theater that can put on your
play you should talk to this person not
that person we're putting your play on
and he's repeatedly asking string Berg
to pull strings or do favors so
Nietzsche can get famous in France um at
one point he used the image of a canal
he says this is like opening up the
Panama Canal for him he wants to
remember to open the Panama Canal for
him to access
the market in France you know anyway
Strindberg his reply you can just
interpret actually what's trim berg says
as insane but I think Strindberg once
you know them as an author he has a
peculiar sense of humor i actually think
Sternberger is kind of ridiculing
nietzsche because nietzsche has written
this sternberg to call this
megalomaniacal is absurd it's like
sitting on your job application that
you're the greatest genius in the world
zone anyway I continue and again even
even Nietzsche's fascism started here
quote if I may be permitted to say so my
ancestors on my father's side were
polish nobleman and my maternal
grandmother lived in y Mar in the days
of gutkha all of which is sufficient
reason for my being in an almost
unimaginable degree the lonely that the
lowliest of all living Germans today no
word of recognition has a fur custom
reports remember so this is an
unsuccessful author a not famous author
Nietzsche writing to an extremely famous
and successful author strindberg asking
for his help to get some of the
spotlight to get put on no word of
recognition has ever come to me says
it's an exaggeration but it's true I
mean Stern you know Friedrich Nietzsche
was not such a big hit during his own
life not in this period not only of the
1880s um XE no it's hilarious to me
because I know how people regard
Nietzsche they were garden each as if he
made a scientific discovery they regard
him as if he invented soul as if he
invented Ella as if he discovered
electricity as if even and he did
nothing he was just a jackass who wrote
provocative opinions like some newspaper
columnist or radio host to try to get
attention and you know rattled away his
life this way his philosophy doesn't
accomplish anything in terms of problem
solving in terms of research anyway
alright and here he is you know acting
like a famewhore trying to get trying to
get put on all right I continue quote
no word of recognition has ever come to
me and honestly I have never demanded it
now I have readers everywhere in Vienna
in st. petersburg in Stockholm in New
York all the intelligences of the
highest order who do me or honor as a
tongue twister sorry but such are
wanting to me in germany since the time
when at the age of 24 i was called to a
professorship at the University of Basel
I actually don't know sir I'm not sure
which university of it is anyway um it
has fortunately not been necessary for
me to maintain a constant warfare and to
waste my energies in a reaction against
adverse influences in Basel sir I
actually do not know this drunken this
translation not sure which city they're
translating here I should I should know
as I say I'm not really i'm not a big
fan of nature anyway i do know the story
that he was elevated to this high
position at a young age and flunked out
of it basically anyway i encountered the
honourable and venerable Jacob Burkhart
who from the very beginning showed a
great interest in me I also enjoyed a
most intimate friendship with Richard
Wagner these are the tricks of the fame
[ __ ] he's been dropping his name
dropping people enjoy the most intimate
friendship with Richard Wagner and his
wife who at that time lived in trip shun
near Lucerne a friendship in every way
of the utmost value to me he's asking a
famous person for help and trying to say
he was friends with other famous people
this is show business people show
business not science I continue quote it
is possible that after all I am myself a
musician from of old it was illness that
forced me to her drama to withdraw
myself from these relationships and then
pleasure me into a condition of the
profoundest introspection such as few
men have ever been subject to and since
there is in my nature nothing that is
either morbid or capricious this
loneliness has been to me not in the
flexion but rather an invaluable
distinction a state of cleanliness no
one has ever accused me of wearing a
gloomy mean and not even myself
that I've become familiar with more evil
and more questionable worlds of thoughts
than anyone else but only because it
lies in my nature to love what lies
apart I account the spirit of gaiety as
one of the proofs of my philosophy
perhaps I may be able to prove this to
you in the two books which I send you
today yours revered need you alright so
why would anyone take this guy seriously
among the few people who I guess you
could say took them seriously was August
Strindberg so obvious member that time
one of the most famous people in all of
Europe famous and influential authors
north Europe wrote back to Nietzsche and
Nietzsche noted in his diary or
something that this was the first
correspondence he had ever received of
real historical importance he was
thrilled to get a reply from strindberg
and in the further course was going a
few more letters he is trying to get put
on and he is trying to offer favors he's
trying to say oh look I can line up for
you that your play will get perform at
the theater at this theater you should
talk to this person not that person it's
show business a showbiz is probably the
most literal sense of a show being put
on on stage it's a play and it's also
showing the disc the reality of what we
call philosophy when the author is alive
really is just show business why did
Nietzsche end up getting famous and not
a thousand other talented people I mean
you know one of the most common things I
encounter when I was in academia just as
a student myself you meet all these
people making excuses for the racism of
someone like Nietzsche or someone like
Hagel claiming although they didn't know
better no they could have known better
at that time 1887 there was much more
brilliant original research being done
on India China all of Asia than there is
today you know the first big break
through publications Europeans you know
racing to translate books of Buddhist
philosophy that was all flowering
unfolding in 1887 exciting new
breakthroughs understand the history of
India and China and what have you and
people like Nietzsche and hey
ignored it so the actual philosophy the
original philosophy of slave morality
you can look this up it is anti-semitic
in principle and that is because
Nietzsche red one really poorly written
source I mean he cherry-picked in fact
he ignored an avalanche of great new
research at that time that was exciting
a public excitement was tremendous at
that time great new research on the
history of India and he constructed a
theory or he selected pieces he creates
I can't he created the theory but
wherever he cobbled together the theory
that the lowest caste people in India
the most oppressed people in their
social hierarchy the Chon Dula as he
calls them again there are many many
different words you could take from
Sanskrit other language in India he
decided that the Chan dollas were the
Jews there's already anti-semitic and
just stupid there's absolutely no
evidence for is completely false and
again even at that time you could you
could be otherwise so he wanted to
believe that the Jews of Europe came
from India and were the most oppressed
and despised and lowest social class
nity okay so this is already in 82 make
theory and that is why so called slave
morality is referred to George's work
also as Chon Dula morality all right now
he wasn't interested in doing research
he wasn't interested in learning
Sanskrit thousands of people at that
time there was an explosion of interest
Nietzsche could have learned Sanskrit he
could have become a scholar who was
really addressed minister of Asia he
could have learned colleague he could
have study Hinduism or Buddhism or
giantism or the history of it he could
have expressed interests any of those
things that wasn't what he wanted
Nietzsche was a Fame war Nietzsche
wasn't interested in the truth Nietzsche
like a chaw HL Mencken before HL Mencken
wasn't really trying to understand the
politics or genealogy of the American
South he just wanted to come up with a
shocking edgy new theory that would get
newspaper readers paying attention right
Nietzsche was not interested in
understanding the history of Judaism or
the history of India or anything else he
just thought he'd come up with something
edgy and shocking
now what did he do at this theory that's
also significant it is true that even
though this was an anti-semitic theory
the theory of slave morality Chando
immorality his purpose with it was not
to attack the Jews his purpose was to
attack Christianity to claim that
Christianity was corrupting Europe by
basically saying that Christianity was
how this so-called slave morality or
chandel immorality was taken into
European culture and how it was
corroding the you know the aristocratic
morality the morality of cruelty now
what is that again so somebody like
making gains I think he doesn't know any
this background totally understandable
vegan gains is actually making a much
more intelligent argument that has
nothing to do with this vegan gains was
arguing that people today many people
today try to win an argument by
presenting themselves as a victim but
presenting themselves as a week with the
implicit assumption being if you are a
victim you can't be wrong if you're weak
you must be right or we must treat you
sympathetically such an interesting
perspective um and I don't think that
has any single author that seems to be
currently fashionable thing for 80
social justice warriors to invoke here
on the internet em but the original
meaning and purpose of the slave
morality argument was racist was
anti-semitic was fascist was fistic in
part it's based on taking what
Schopenhauer is to say which is an ethic
of philosophy of compassion and turning
on its head and saying no it's actually
the cruelty of the Conqueror the cruelty
of the aristocrat that is truly good not
the calling for sympathy of you know the
conquered it's partly just like HL
Mencken like any radio shock jock just a
an attempt to get your audience to pay
attention to you you know just by saying
the most outrageous thing possible and
it's partly a way of and this goes way
back guys like Bruno Bruno power did
this in Germany you could always get
attention
germany by basically criticizing
christianity via anti-semitism by saying
okay here's what's wrong with judaism
and then it's even worse than
christianity or it's the it's the fall
within Christianity because of course it
was culturally safe to criticize Judaism
80 Semitism was very popular ideology at
the time and then to make it edgy and
shocking by say oh no no and and this
this problem with you more so that's
that's kind of the stuff that's going on
here but I mean you know the bottom line
is just I mean who today remembers the
philosophy of any of the radio
personalities that 20 years ago there's
a sense in which that you love plus the
dispensed in which a radio personality
or newspaper columnist has to wake up
every day and find something sensational
to say find something shocking and edgy
and new and that's basically what you
see neat you're doing here Nietzsche
doesn't care about history of India
doesn't care what is your Judaism he
really a you don't not research it's
just not I mean it's obviously it's not
academic philosophy or something let me
know just one cry for attention after
another and when you look back on it I
mean to me it's not surprising even
though many of the radio personalities
20 years ago had an audience of millions
they got a lot of attention some of them
got a duration some of them got hatred
some and got both hatred in adoration
the memory of that feeds fast because
the truth is this is not the progress of
science the truth is this is not even a
progress of problem solving does not
even the progress of politics it's just
[ __ ] and I've always been mystified
I've never been able to understand why
so many people can't see past the
academic veneer the basically just comes
from the shelf that we put Nietzsche on
because what Nietzsche is doing in these
books like genealogy of morals is no
different from an op-ed column in the
newspaper it's no different from a shark
job of personality and again
yeah I think that almost at random not
randomly but arbitrarily out of all the
imitators who tried to do what four of
us did what max Turner did what
Schopenhauer only managed to do really
after his death the people who came out
and wanted to get in that spotlight who
wanted to use philosophy to achieve fame
Nietzsche is as part of the half dozen
who for whatever mix of reasons he got
lucky and I I don't know why people have
so much difficulty looking back on this
and seeing it for the semi-improvised
[ __ ] that it really is